Cybersecurity

What does it do?

Cybersecurity is the process of defending computers, servers, mobile devices, electronic systems, networks and data from malicious attacks. Cybersecurity is also known as information technology security or electronic information security. Cybersecurity can be divided into types of security.

Network Security - Securing a computer from network intruders.
Application security -Securing software and devices.
Operational security - The processes and decisions for handling and protecting data assets
Information security - Integrity and privacy of data.
Identity management- The process of understanding the access every individual has in an organization
Disaster recovery - How an organization deals with a cybersecurity breach and how it can recover.
User Education - Teaching people with good security practices.

Types of cyber threats cybersecurity is designed to prevent are :
Cyber Crime - Targeting systems for financial gain or to cause disruption.
Cyber Attack - Information gathering usually politically motivated
Cyber Terrorism - Undermining electronic systems to cause panic and fear.

The most common types of cyber threats are:
Malware - Malicious software
SQL injection - Structured Language Query injection is where a user takes control of and steals data from a system.
Phishing - Targets users with emails that appear from a legitimate company asking for sensitive information.
Man in the Middle - Interception of communication to steal data.
Denial of service - Prevents a computer system from fulfilling a legitimate request by overwhelming networks and servers with traffic.

We are living in a far more technologically-advanced world than we were a decade ago. Consider the fact that the iPad has only been around since 2010, and the iPhone only came out a few years before that. Average broadband speeds have increased by roughly five-fold in the last decade, making it possible for businesses and individuals to do far more online. This has facilitated the rise in cloud services, working from home and massive amounts of data being thrown back and forth.Businesses and individuals now take for granted such things as easy online document sharing, email that's available on every device, and databases being accessible from everywhere.
   
The most difficult challenge in cybersecurity is the ever-evolving nature of security risks themselves. Traditionally, organizations and governments have focused most of their cybersecurity resources on perimeter security to protect only their most crucial system components and defend against known threats. Today, this approach is insufficient, as the threats advance and change more quickly than organizations can keep up with. As a result, advisory organizations promote more proactive and adaptive approaches to cybersecurity, such as a shift toward continuous monitoring and real-time assessments, a data-focused approach to security as opposed to the traditional perimeter-based model.

Nobody can tell what the next major cyber threat will be or where it will come from, but experts still have a good idea of the general direction that we are heading in. AI systems are sure to become a significant target for hackers when more and more companies start to use them. In response, future cybersecurity software and personnel will be forced to develop techniques to detect and counteract AI corruption attacks. Many now believe that cyberwarfare, where one nation hacks or embeds viruses in the computer systems of another, will become the frontier on which wars are fought around the world. There is good reason to believe that the number of people with the skills and motivation to hack legitimate systems will grow in the future as education improves all over the world as the potential pays off are large. Companies around the world are continuing to expose themselves to cyber risk by continuing to use vulnerable legacy technology. Usually, this is done to save money or because the business does not recognize the security benefits offered by upgrading.



What is the likely impact?

It's estimated that the global cost of cybercrime for 2017 added up to around $600 Billion. With the number mounting up every year, and by 2021 experts are suggesting a figure of up to $6 Trillion per year.
54% of companies have had their network or data compromised in 2016. The average cost of recovering from a cyberattack is around $5 Million for a large company. 60% of small businesses who experience a significant cybercrime incident go out of business shortly after. One particularly chilling statistic is that there are now over 4000 hacks every single day using ransomware alone. It is exceptionally misguided for anyone to think they can't be affected.

Anti-virus software is still an essential part of IT security, but it is not enough on its own to protect from modern threats. Technical teams need many more tools, resources and solutions, and some of them are expensive. However, they're not likely to be as expensive as the cost of recovering from a cyber attack.

It's no longer realistic to expect an IT department to mitigate every IT security risk as many modern cybersecurity threats originate from social engineering, user error, exploits to web browsers, and other things that technical teams can only do so much to protect you from. Cybersecurity is something everyone needs to take notice of, and a vast number of incidents are caused by people ignoring IT advice such as avoiding clicking on suspicious links and maintaining secure passwords. Another excellent example of why cybersecurity is not merely a technology issue is how easy it is for anyone in any department to cause a data breach. A breach can happen by something as simple as a distracted employee leaving an unencrypted personal device on a bus on the way to work. Everyone needs to be aware of the implications of not using cybersecurity.


How will this affect you?

Cybersecurity affects companies and big business, so does it affect me, my parents or friends? You don't need to be a big company or big business to be targeted, breaches in personal cybersecurity can result in hackers claiming your financial information, work files, and even more personal information like photos and social media messages. Bad credit ratings, an inability to access your computer, or even total identify theft. If your online you can be targeted from your emails, gaming passwords, social media and internet banking to name a few, cybersecurity affects Everyone in everyday life. 47.1% of Australian homes have more than five smart home devices connected, according to the Avast Smart Home Report 2019. At least 33.4% of these include at least one vulnerable connected device; this can compromise the entire home network's security.
Currently, Australia's cybersecurity workforce is short of approximately 2,300 workers, with the country needing up to 17,600 additional cybersecurity employees by 2026.



What can you do to increase your security and make it harder to be targeted?

A few simple steps can be made every time you log on :
Passwords - Big security organizations cannot protect consumers against phishing or hackers who can guess passwords like "1234." Common sense and password hygiene can go a long way to protect you from cyber threats.
Websites- Be careful about which websites you go to, a lot of well-known websites have additional security attached to make it harder to gain your information, but a dodgy website will not have the same security, some are even designed to steal your information by asking personal questions, which they can use themselves or sell/pass on to someone who will use that data for their own gain.
Anti-virus software - Subscribe to anti-virus software and keep your system up to date with automated, scheduled scans.
Phishing attacks - Be careful about opening file attachments. Phishing and spear-phishing emails ones that look real but are not. If you pay attention, for instance, if you get an email that says "past due invoice" with a PDF attachment, do not open it unless you are 100% sure you know who sent it. If you double-check, you'll probably see it comes from an unusual email, like this one, from anny234526426@gmail.com .



REF : https://www.kaspersky.com.au/resource-center/definitions/what-is-cyber-security
              https://digitalguardian.com/blog/what-cyber-security
              https://www.techradar.com/news/what-is-the-future-of-cybersecurity
              https://eng.umd.edu/news/story/study-hackers-attack-every-39-seconds
              https://securityfirstcorp.com/why-is-cyber-security-important/
              https://preyproject.com/blog/en/what-are-cyber-threats-how-they-affect-you-what-to-do-about-them/
              https://www.lifehacker.com.au/2019/06/how-cybersecurity-affects-all-aspects-of-your-life/